OK in this video I'm going to share with you some tips and tricks and to get ourselves ready to start
manipulating our environment and placing everything in our scene so that we can create our moment.
So let's jump in and talk about some ways to be more effective in creating a moment before I start crafting
my moment.
I've got four things that I want to show you some tips and some just general techniques that I use when
I'm creating a new area like this the first one is purely cosmetic.
I get really annoyed looking at this default skybox so one of the first things I do in a project that
I've resisted doing all the way up until now but I can't resist any longer is going to the asset store
and finding a skybox.
I'm going to type in free as good box.
Totally up to you whether you want to do this or not.
But for me I'm just gonna grab this first one here looks fine looks fine because it's free thank you
to box phobic letting us use the skybox I'm going to find in here to input might need to download first
I've already downloaded this in the past I'm just going to import there's a few things in here I'm pretty
sure I don't need but I'm just gonna put it all any way because the assets look pretty similar to the
style I'm using and if I find I'm not using them then I'll just delete them from my project to tidy
up but I recommend you go find a skybox and then once you've grabbed on this is box phobic him is going
to put that into my assets pack's assets pack asset packs there we go Fox phobic open that up skybox
cube map and then under.
Let's see materials I believe scroll the way down the bottom you can see these skybox cube map just
grab that and drag it onto his guide box and now I've got some clouds and some blue sky OK just looks
a little bit different.
That's a quick one for us to do there do that if you like and if you want you can clean up all the things
in here that you don't need but like I said they are kind of similar to the type of game that we've
got so might keep them around.
Okay.
The next thing is a tip if you've got two monitors which I do at the moment I can have my my sketch
that I did over on my other monitor.
If you don't it's real pain flipping between the sketch and in back you've seen sketch and seen so what
you can do is put that sketch within your scene as a reference.
So what I'm going to do up here is right click Create three object quad and make this quad where is
it.
Inspector I'll make it just for now are 50 50 50 so it's not in huge.
I think we need it rectangular.
And where is it you might is.
There it is.
Batting court is just one face of a cube that I can see from one direction rotated around so I can see
it fine where I have saved my sketch.
If you created your sketch electronically or if you've taken a copy of it then you can grab it drag
it into your scene I'm just going to drag this straight into assets.
This high level here and in a moment I'll figure out where to put it came moment sketch.
Let's see where we're gonna put these things.
I think this is going to be with our scenes and in our sandbox.
Yeah that seems pretty good for now just in sandbox.
I'll probably delete this after I've got my scene looking pretty good so it's all just in here for a
short amount of time.
Now I'm going to do next is create a material so right click Create material this will give me a few
extra levers to pull so that I can more easily see my sketch moment.
I can't spell correctly sketch sketch as a material and in material here the under Alberto I'm going
to click and select my moment sketch double click on that has now applied this material.
Now I can drag this material onto my quad it looks pretty awful but I've got a few things I can change
here on my material instead of being a standard shader I'm going to changes to unlit texture book and
now it looks a little bit better still not amazing because it's all skewed so let's click on our quad
and change the scale actions can use my scale tool here and just drag it sideways as looking a little
bit better and then drag it up nice and big like that then we have it is bigger as little as you want
that's just one way that while I'm working in my scene here and saying I need a guy here need to go
there I guess quickly refer to my image that is sitting looming nice and large in my scene behind me
there that allows me to quickly on the fly see what I need to do I'll get just a little tip for you.
Their next tip as you're going along and changing things in your terrain I use terrain a lot so I find
it really fast I can get in there and just lets see raise a lower I can say not I want this to be here
yet I want some stuff to be there let's just put an obstacle in the way there let's make a little river
etc. So I like to use terrain there's a bunch of other ways that you can add assets or we can use Pro
builder as well that we might do later on in this course but I use it because it's fast but sometimes
it's a pain to map things out on the ground.
So what I do is I add some simple textures so I've given this to you as a downloadable against this
lecture you can see these simple textures there's a folder there I've unzipped that already you'll need
to unzip it and drag that on into your fold into your project I'm just gonna dump it in assets again
for now simple textures where does this leave.
I think this leaves in my terrain textures I can grab simple textures put it in terrain textures a folder
in there simple textures This is just blue red and yellow couple of different blues because I like to
kind of penciling where water might be before I've actually committed to doing nice fancy water and
just so I can draw things on the ground.
Sorry let me show you how this works if I click on my train and then I go to my paint texture added
to rain layers create layer and then I'll just fine say the yellow double click on that boat as a yellow
edit for rain create layer and then what do we want the blue double click it's in there do one more
time so you know I'm pulling into this two more times where's the other ones that I want there's the
dark blue and then the last one I'll do is the red red texture Okay so now that I've got these I can
click on say red changed my brush size down to pretty small come back into the scene and then I can
paint in here if I change the opacity way up to maximum I can just paint things on my scene that allows
me to add notes and stuff kind of spray painting it in this I might put a little picture over here which
might indicate that's where a boss battle is going to be or I might use the yellow and say you know
what I've got the alternate go track going along here and then I can just use a regular brown I've got
a ready to say the player runs along here so I find it useful just for adding notes and adding little
tips to myself about what's going on or just being silly and spray painting the whole world yellow.
So it's going to undo all those fiddly doodles I've pretty much seen they're just an extra little tip
for you in terms of how you can make your moment creation process a little bit easier and the other
thing we haven't talked about yet is trees.
I'm a big fan of trees so if you click on terrain and find the symbol the second one in here which is
paint trees click on that.
We haven't added any trees yet but if click edit trees add a tree and then we'll have a tree prefab
we've already got trees from our Sinti asset pack.
So when I click on that selector type in tree it's a couple of trees here which got another couple of
trees from that Skybox pack very important if you want to play around that later on.
So going to choose this tree and then click on Add now gives us a whole bunch of flexibility so you
look at the previous trees we'd hand place those ones before but now what we can do is why I choose
my brush size small my tree density kind of medium.
I can paint trees blink onto my scene as I move around and click I can't see them there because the
draw distance is such that it's saying don't draw the trees way off in the distance scrolling in and
out here as you can see.
So you might find that it's pretty good not to have trees that you can see way off in the distance because
it's better not to have to render it because the play is never going to see them.
Interestingly though it also chops it off when you're in the same view like this.
OK so I can go in and place my trees I can change the height of them if I click off random I can move
up and down I click on random then I can say the range of the height and I can also do that with the
with the weight.
So with the width and I can have some variation in the color.
Okay so there's trees obviously I can go and add a second tree and I can add a third I can add a ton
of trees so I'm just going to undo what I did there again because it's a little bit messy.
That gives us the ability to add trees and the final thing I'm going to do here is just tidy up my hierarchy.
This.
Trust me.
This is beginning to become a real big mess.
Once we start adding assets in there.
So we want to be organized.
Let's first of all create ourselves an empty game object which we will call enemies and grab enemies
0 1 and 2 drop that into the enemy's game objects there and then also patrol path.
You're not going to create another empty game object which I will call a patrol path I will grab the
patrol path.
We have already dropped those into patrol path and then I think I'm going to throw a patrol path inside
the enemy's game object just because they seem to go hand in hand.
And I can roll them all up and not have it cluttering up my hierarchy.
I'm also going to write clicking create empty.
I'll create something I just call core which is where I will put my directional light.
My player and my fellow camera on my camera that follows the player as it is What's missed.
I'll try that again.
Drag that into core.
There we go.
Now I can roll up core drag core up to the very top I tend not to look at that one too much and enemies.
Looking pretty good and we've got this random quad laying around I might add another final which is
something I'll call prototyping which is something that I is a little mental note to me and to Sam who
hopefully is watching this and saying Why have you created that Rick is that this is something that
we can delete add to it's kind of like a temporary folder but it's things that I know when I'm prototyping
I can just throw things in there to keep it tidy.
Okay.
Now there's only four things in here I feel better for further points we could go ahead and organize
our environment which we will need to do at some point but for now it's okay to roll that up.
I'm also going to go and delete my trees because we've got our new way of placing trees so I don't need
all these old trees and just delete all these trees in here.
Great.
Now I can go and place my trees are fresh and I knew I was gonna go ahead and create my moment now in
my world but I think we've taken long enough in this video we'll do that in the next video.
My challenge for you in this video is to tidy up your hierarchy and to get all of your tools ready.
So in the next video we can lay out our moment great stuff and I'll see you in the next video.